# Digital-Alarm-Clock-Radio

Digital alarm clock radio is simply a project i decided i wanted to try and solve using functions,returning values, writing simple algorithms to make time tick and to also control how the on/off power button and display interact together to display the most recent time with javaScript. 

# Project Description and Break Down:
while the project is not yet finished, i will try to descibe how i and why i decided to go with this route in solving my problem. To start you will need access to an html file which is what i used because i knew the file would require that many js lines that it would not make sense to create an external js file and have it read on the html file. so for this example in the body of the html document i just decided to use some script tags. script tags for those who are new to coding and simply just some tags and they allow you to write Internal javaScript directly to an html doc. Now make note my design is still in the works right now so please don't be harsh let's focus on the logic stuff first. to make the digital alarm clock you'll need to create you first div and assign it the id value of digital-clock. I like to thing of this div as the enclosure of a real-life digital clock minus real life materials. another way of putting it is its basically a container that will store your display and button. next you want to create is yet another div on this time we'll give it an id of display. i like to think of this as the screen you see in your real life digital alarm clock. and then you want to make another div only this time we'll call it button. Next, create some script tags insde the tags well use our first lines of js code these specially aiming to get access to your html elements to begin using js to change css, and how elements will interact to basically do things.  
var clockDisplay = document.getElementById("display");
var powerButton = document.getElementById("button");
are the first lines we use. Because js is so flexible essentially alomst anything can be stored into a variable. I like to see that as javascripts strong suite. those two line yet serve one purpose its direct access to the html elements i want but based on the id's we gave them earlier. you can also access them in other ways, but for this project i accessed threw the use of id's. In addition to accessing them i also placed these two variables first is because i want to have a global access to those variables. Meaning i can use the variable clockDisplay in any function without worrying about scope. After we create our variables we'll want to write our first function which i called setTime(); In this function what i was trying to do was to essentially declare time but not have in run just yet. the way you declare time in just is by creating a var date = new Date(); using the date function allows us to return the current time. to store the hours, minutes, seconds we'll need to create 3 more varibales each one having its name hours, minutes, seconds and giving them value date.getHours(); date.getMinutes(); date.getSeconds();. these functions if you want a break down on how they really work is remeber the var date. well since that returns time then how do we get only the hours or only just the minutes well that is done by calling time which is date and the the function that returns hours getHours(); and when you console.log(); that data you get a number usually in the 24:00hr format. so in my example 24:00:00 or H:M:S. you can also display that number as innerHTML which is what i do late on. next i created a variable that would store the complete time only this time using something else. I guess in es6/7 rather than use variable concatination so var + ":" + var + ":" + var; in es6/7 you can use this format to concatinate and write text along side them without having to place them in quotes. and that looks like `${var}:${var}:${var}`; and this would also render the same output as the previous concatination. next we want to return our complete time with our clockTime variable. we want to return time so that when we invoke the function as innerHTML inside of a setInterval function we can return time in their and use the intervals to make the time tick, but for now we return clockTime and that ends function setTime(); after we're done with our first function we want to write the second function which is powerOn(); the purpose of that function is to have the div id named button interact with div id named display and when those to interact or the button is pressed On the current time is displayed and some css changes take place with js to render on and off colors for the button. as well as some text which i obtained from a small string array. the firs things well create is a var called on_Off_SwicthArr with the index string values of "power on" for index of 0 and for index of 1 well have "power off". i wanted to create this variable so when i clicked the button to on or off it uses any of those string array values to indicate your clock is on or off. next we create a variable called num and assign that variabel the value of 0; mainly becuase it will be used for keeping track of the clicks as everytime button is clicked num incrments by one givng us odd or even numbers and used as a condition to determine when the button is on and uses the string arr and display the right text.
